.TH MiniLibX 3 "September 19, 2002"
.SH NAME
MiniLibX - Extra functions
.SH SYNOPSYS

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_mouse_hide
(
.I void *mlx_ptr
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_mouse_show
(
.I void *mlx_ptr
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_mouse_move
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, int x, int y
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_mouse_get_pos
(
.I void *win_ptr, int *x, int *y
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_do_key_autorepeatoff
(
.I void *mlx_ptr
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_do_key_autorepeaton
(
.I void *mlx_ptr
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_get_screen_size
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, unsigned int *width, unsigned int *height
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_do_sync
(
.I void *mlx_ptr
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_sync
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, int cmd, void *param
);

.SH MOUSE EXTRA FUNCTIONS

It is possible to show / hide the mouse, and get its current position without user click or
force its position inside a window.

.SH KEYBOARD EXTRA FUNCTIONS

The auto-repeat mode of the keyboard can be controlled. By default, auto-repeat is on:
multiple "key pressed" events are generated every second until the key is released.

.SH SCREEN EXTRA FUNCTION

It is possible to retrieve the size of the current screen, even before the first
window is created.

.SH FLUSH AND SYNC FUNCTIONS

The
.B mlx_do_sync
function will flush the pending commands to the graphic subsystems, ensuring nothing
is cached on your software's side. On return, there is no guarantee that your
commands have been processed.
.br
With
.B mlx_sync
you have more detailed control over the synchronisation mechanisms. Three different commands
are available:
.br
#define MLX_SYNC_IMAGE_WRITABLE         1
.br
#define MLX_SYNC_WIN_FLUSH              2
.br
#define MLX_SYNC_WIN_COMPLETED          3
.br
The third parameter
.I param
can be either the image identifier (command #1) or the window identifier (commands #2 and #3).


.SH SEE ALSO
mlx(3), mlx_new_window(3), mlx_pixel_put(3), mlx_new_image(3), mlx_loop(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright ol@ - 2002-2025 - Olivier Crouzet
