.TH MiniLibX 3 "September 19, 2002"
.SH NAME
MiniLibX - Manipulating images
.SH SYNOPSYS

.nf
.I void *
.fi
.B mlx_new_image
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, unsigned int width, unsigned int height
);

.nf
.I unsigned char *
.fi
.B mlx_get_data_addr
(
.I void *img_ptr, unsigned int *bits_per_pixel, unsigned int *size_line, unsigned int *format
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_put_image_to_window
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, void *win_ptr, void *img_ptr, int x, int y
);

.nf
.I void *
.fi
.B mlx_xpm_to_image
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, const char **xpm_data, unsigned int *width, unsigned int *height
);

.nf
.I void *
.fi
.B mlx_xpm_file_to_image
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, const char *filename, unsigned int *width, unsigned int *height
);

.nf
.I void *
.fi
.B mlx_png_file_to_image
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, const char *filename, unsigned int *width, unsigned int *height
);

.nf
.I int
.fi
.B mlx_destroy_image
(
.I void *mlx_ptr, void *img_ptr
);


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B mlx_new_image
() creates a new image in memory. It returns a
.I void *
identifier needed to manipulate this image later. It only needs
the size of the image to be created, using the
.I width
and
.I height
parameters, and the
.I mlx_ptr
connection identifier (see the
.B mlx
manual).

The user can draw inside the image (see below), and
can dump the image inside a specified window at any time to
display it on the screen. This is done using
.B mlx_put_image_to_window
(). Three identifiers are needed here, for the connection to the
display, the window to use, and the image (respectively
.I mlx_ptr
,
.I win_ptr
and
.I img_ptr
). The (
.I x
,
.I y
) coordinates define where the image should be placed in the window.

.B mlx_get_data_addr
() returns information about the created image, allowing a user
to modify it later. The
.I img_ptr
parameter specifies the image to use. The three next parameters should
be the addresses of three different valid unsigned integers.
.I bits_per_pixel
will be filled with the number of bits needed to represent a pixel colour
(also called the depth of the image).
.I size_line
is the number of bytes used to store one line of the image in memory.
This information is needed to move from one line to another in the image.
.I format
tells you how each pixel colour in the image is structured. Currently only 2 values are defined:
.P
0 means format B8G8R8A8
.P
1 means format A8R8G8B8

.B mlx_get_data_addr
returns an
.I unsigned char *
address that represents the beginning of the memory area where the image
is stored. From this address, the first
.I bits_per_pixel
bits represent the colour of the first pixel in the first line of
the image. The second group of
.I bits_per_pixel
bits represent the second pixel of the first line, and so on.
Add
.I size_line
to the address to get the beginning of the second line. You can reach any
pixels of the image that way.

.B mlx_destroy_image
destroys the given image (
.I img_ptr
).

.SH STORING COLOURS INSIDE IMAGES

Depending on the graphic system, the number of bits used to store a pixel colour
used to be different from one hardware to another. Today, the way the user usually
represents a colour, in the ARGB mode, almost always matches the hardware capabilities
on modern computers.

Keep in mind that packing the 4-byte ARGB into an unsigned int depends on the local
computer's endian. Adjust your code accordingly.

.SH XPM AND PNG IMAGES

The
.B mlx_xpm_to_image
() ,
.B mlx_xpm_file_to_image
() and
.B mlx_png_file_to_image
() functions will create a new image the same way.
They will fill it using the specified
.I xpm_data
or
.I filename
, depending on which function is used.
Note that MiniLibX does not use the standard
Xpm and png libraries to deal with xpm and png images. You may not be able to
read all types of xpm and png images. It however handles transparency.

.SH RETURN VALUES
The four functions that create images,
.B mlx_new_image()
,
.B mlx_xpm_to_image()
,
.B mlx_xpm_file_to_image()
and
.B mlx_png_file_to_image()
, will return NULL if an error occurs. Otherwise they return a non-null pointer
as an image identifier.


.SH SEE ALSO
mlx(3), mlx_new_window(3), mlx_pixel_put(3), mlx_loop(3), mlx_extra(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Copyright ol@ - 2002-2025 - Olivier Crouzet
